oh
today's the day folks
let's go
we online
hey
oh we'll let it go
we'll let it go tonight a
a
oh
[Music]
good morning good afternoon good evening
no matter where you're coming from hope
you are doing well
welcome folks welcome welcome welcome
welcome
hope you're doing well today's a good
day you know what today is a good
good
day
i'm super excited you know what like
that song comes on i don't know
something takes over
there's a there's a leon before stream
and then there's a leon on stream and
it's that song i don't know it gets me
going
what's going on everybody
uh somebody you're in here early too
what's up what's up hey come on in
everybody
alrighty it's provocative exactly
well everybody say what's the news
what's the news we you know we we always
we have a pattern folks we got we got to
build up to the news we we online we got
to build up to it so
as always
uh tonight is a special night we got the
biggest news ever folks it's coming
we got the biggest news ever
uh
we're getting into objects which are for
me
objects where it starts to get fun
uh once we learn a little bit of objects
tonight next week is fire we get we
actually get to build with like apis and
and it becomes real i don't know i like
one of the biggest things i think for
students early on is this idea that like
yes we're accumulating like all these
legos right we have variables we have
functions we have loops we have
conditionals we have arrays but like how
do we like put those legos together to
build stuff and until you start building
it's it's really hard to to see the
results of your effort and so once we
add this last lego block your your
mind's gonna be blown like the things
you'll be able to start building are out
of this world so
super pumped for the best news ever
super pumped for us to add that last
lego brick which is objects and
we got lots of review tonight as well so
we're gonna be reviewing some of our
array stuff uh practicing with some of
those methods that we haven't really had
a chance to play with yet then we're
jumping into objects that better
understand what the heck those methods
are and we got the best
news
ever
cool
you know we always like to start off
with some questions
if you got questions i possibly got
answers
tonight's question of the day if you uh
well today's question of the day
is would you rather be an expert in bird
watching
or insect identification so say bird or
insect in chat for me please bird or
insect
first question what's the news
oh i thought insects would blow out i'm
into birds i'll say it loud i'm into
birds
i spent a good portion of today watching
some crows
i'm into birds it's a thing
but i like my bugs too i like my bugs
too
bird up
wow bird really i'm well versed in bird
law i'm not a lawyer but i i know a
little bit
uh enough so that you're gonna need a
warrant to legally search my
words
i guess if it's bird law right
birds
all right i think birds blew this one
out there's a there's a few insect folks
holding out
but i think i think uh
i think birds blew this one out the
water
all right thank you i tell you i love
seeing these answers these are like this
is how i get to know you all
insects is important to know your enemy
alrighty other questions questions this
evening
rossi said are you announcing the group
project winners we'll get to that we'll
get to that we'll get to that i got you
i watched the video on how to make
friends with crows and so i'm trying it
i'm trying to make friends with my my
local crew my local crows there's a
there there is a there is like a like a
pair like a bonded pair that i see every
every day so i'm gonna make friends with
them and i think there's like a juvenile
crew that's like a block over trying to
make friends with them too
i want them looking out for me you know
i want i want my birds you know flying
around making sure i'm good
all right you got questions i got
answers
what's the meaning of life the universe
and everything 42
what do you think of the ending of the
most recent bachelor i don't want to
spoil
i also may not have finished yet
get some my water in
what should we do if we haven't found a
freelance client yet and i don't know if
we will before the due date
don't fear
on thursday we're going to talk through
some alternatives to getting a client so
for a lot of folks getting a client's
not actually like a possibility uh
either you have visa issues you're in an
area that prohibits it from actually
happening you're in a space where you
just can't do it so on thursday we're
going to talk through some other things
that you can do that will get you
similar benefits to the client so if
you're really stressing over the client
thursday i got you
superman no home hey thank you for the
gift of subs thank you for being here
yeah so know that we do have that
that date coming very soon i want you to
push yourself this this whole process is
about pushing you pushing yourself right
um i i want you to always take yourself
a little bit further than you think you
can go that's the goal it's a boot camp
right a boot camp is meant to push you
you're not supposed to feel super
comfortable the whole way through that
would be like a udemy course i don't
know
you're meant to push yourself right
you're meant to to feel at some times
that things aren't going your way
sometimes you're supposed to feel the
muck that is the trough of sorrow
sometimes you're you're you're supposed
to be in that reading
doing one of these
all right
what i just read that four times i just
read that four times what
what those aren't words those can't be
words
all right
you're you're you're focused you're
supposed to feel that right that's a
part of a boot camp because through that
struggle through carrying those boats
through carrying those logs you start to
grow a little bit of a thicker skin
the things that used to be really
troublesome start to feel a little bit
easier
and you're going to have days where
you're winning and you're going to have
days where it doesn't feel the same
but through the process
you you you pick up some skills you pick
up techniques that you didn't have
before and then when you're on the job
and you have to learn something
no sweat right no
sweat that's the whole point the whole
point is to build yourself up enough so
that when you're in the job and they're
throwing new materials at you news new
languages new things at you you're like
i've been there done that this is this
ain't no thing i read eloquent
javascript you know what i read eloquent
javascript this ain't no sweat i went
through that book if i can make it
through that book you ain't got nothing
to throw at me right so
it's a boot camp some days are gonna
feel tough that's okay
that is okay that's a good thing
embrace the suck
open up that closet get in there fight
your demons right
and then ask for help
all right this
it's a boot camp we're here to carry
some boats and logs but you got to ask
for help too and you got to realize that
not everything is going to be your thing
right there are gonna be some some
examples that just don't click that's
okay
you you have a bunch of other resources
i never just give you one thing
right i never just give you one thing
right there's always other things to
help boost you up we come to class we
fill it out
so it's okay
and one thing we have to remember as
we're going through this process
yes it's a bootcamp yes we're here to
push ourselves yes we're here to get in
the muck and ask a metric crap ton of
questions
but we always have to keep in mind
health first
okay
this is something that i i asked the
last cohort to really embody i asked
them for it to be
to be a
a thing that they brought up
constantly with each other and i don't
ever want this to be like a mocking
thing i really want this to be something
that a hundred devs
embodies
right the idea that health comes first
we're 21 classes in
jeff and hey thank you for the 10 gifted
subs congrats on the new gig too
cool these jobs folks
these jobs
jeff and a thank you for the for the 10
gift itself hope you're doing well we're
21 classes in
it's starting to get real
it's starting to get real we got reading
we got doing
we got cold wars we got networking we
got class to show up to we got office
hours to come to
it it's really starting to build
and uh oh yeah 21 21 21.
what we have to realize is that our
health has to come first
right
we've been doing this for a while right
we're doing this for a while
we got to start taking care of ourselves
better we have to make sure that we're
doing our stretches you're taking care
of your hands you're taking care of your
eyes you're taking care of your
shoulders right
you're
you're realizing that we're still got a
long way to go
and that fatigue is going to start
setting in and that fatigue is what's
going to stop you from getting to the
end it may not be your will it may not
be the actual learning but the fatigue
the tiredness that starts to set in and
the only way to get through that is to
put your health first
it's okay
to take a day and not come to class
the the vods are always here they always
make it up to youtube
right
make sure if you need a day to sleep
to eat to hydrate
to let that fatigue wear off
that's okay
this is a marathon not a sprint
please as we get deeper into it
take care of your hands take care of
your body stretch hydrate do the things
that we say when we take the breaks
during class time actually take the
breaks and if you ever need a day a week
you can take it we have the catch-up
crew you can always catch up and join us
live there's no reason in burning
yourself out
and you know what it's okay
if there's ever an assignment i give you
and you're like leon this is too much
for me in the moment put it to the side
that's okay
if if eloquent javascript took you to
the brink and you're like it's just not
worth it
i want to be able to continue put it to
the side
it's not gospel right you can take the
things that you need in the moment and
pick up the breast as you need to go
forward
all right so always put your health
first
cool
and and and bring this into the cohort
right when people are stressing when
people are are are at a in a place we
know that they could probably be
prioritizing the health bring it up
don't ever do it in a mocking way but
let's let this be something that we
embody
coding challenges
some folks have been diving deep some
folks have been spinning out these
coding challenges are uh
taking the best of us
so
coding challenges i'm addicted yeah some
people go in all of them they're fun i
know if you don't if if you haven't seen
the fun in them yet give yourself a
little time they can be really fun they
can be something that winds up being
like it's like you're it's like it's
like nerdy crossword puzzles right it
even nerdier crossword puzzles they can
be fun you got to get into them and you
got to make them part of your daily
practice
and the very first couple times you do
your coding challenges they can really
suck if you've never done them before so
we brought this up during office hours
but please
make sure you are doing level eight
make sure you are doing the eight cues
make sure you're doing the fundamentals
track
rockefeller a
make sure you're doing the fundamentals
track if you're not doing a cues and
you're not doing fundamentals you're off
doing some wild stuff
right
right you're you're off doing you're
you're off doing some wild stuff you
need to be on eight queues you need to
be on fundamentals and you're gonna be
there for a while
okay
if you're trying to do anything else
it's too much now the first time you do
code wars
you're almost never going to understand
how it works or what to do you're going
to look at the question you're going to
go what
if in that moment you have no idea how
you're going to even approach the topic
just look at the solution
there you're there's no such thing as
cheating there's no such thing as
like
like i i it's just it's just so weird
just look at the solution you're here to
learn the reason we do code wars
not is not because like we we just want
to do something no it's because we're
here to learn
so if you're looking at a problem and
you have no idea how you're gonna solve
it it makes no sense to sit there for an
hour banging your head against the
keyboard when you could look at the
solution and then spend more time on the
analysis than you did on trying to solve
and that's how you learn to become a
lean mean interviewing machine when you
see these problems and you have no idea
how to even get started make just look
at the solution then spend more time
analyzing the solution typing it out
re-typing it out re-typing it out doing
it again looking at the question without
the code pulled up make sure you can
pass it right spend more time on the
analysis and practice than you did on
trying to solve it
and eventually after you do a few
right
now after you do a few right after you
do a few
the
it gets easier you start to understand
how things play out you start to see the
same patterns and so the code wars is
really about patterns and so until you
have those patterns look at the solution
please
and then make sure you're doing
ones where you can see the patterns over
and over again so like once you start to
come out of fundamentals only do array
problems then only do object problems
only do the things that you want to
practice in that moment so you see those
patterns over and over again
okay
but don't don't don't beat yourself up
if the code wars don't click the first
couple that you do look at the solution
spend more time in analysis than you do
on the solving and that's how you grow
on sunday we talked about chess grand
masters and i i think this is important
to bring up again because i know people
are in the thick of it right now
people that are really good at chess
like grandmasters at chess like the best
competitive chess players they don't get
better
at chess
by playing more chess
i think that's a weird thing for most
folks like they don't get better at
chess
by playing more chess
they get better at chess
by analyzing
their games or other games right they
spend more time looking at all right
here's what this person did then they
did this and they did that then they did
this and then they did that all right
and i see this pattern that's that that
can lead to that right you spend more
time on the analyzing than you do
on the actual playing it's the same
thing for your code wars in the
beginning spend more time analyzing even
if you get the code wars right
look at the other solutions what did
they do how did they do it in less lines
how did they do it more efficiently
right the end the analysis is more
important than the solving in the
beginning so spend time looking at your
solution other solutions and make sure
you understand how they're doing and
approaching things and that's how you
really grow very quickly
at the stage that you're at right now
the more you put into code wars
the more you're going to get out of the
next chunk of class because code wars
forces you to put all the things that
we're learning into practice it's really
hard to see all these lego bricks and
not know what to do with them code wars
forces you to use them and so your code
wars combined with projects that we'll
do on that we'll do in class
that's the cheat codes
cool
super pumped when i wrote a proper arrow
function today on the js30 homework hey
it's awesome two times beautiful
2 30 not for a while
alrighty uh we're getting ready to have
a live portfolio and resume review
session
if you would like to have one of your
resumes and portfolios reviewed live
fill out this form i'm going to pick a a
big handful of folks i'll kind of give
you a slight little roast but through
that roasting
we can see all the things that we think
portfolios and resumes should have and
we'll do it in a constructive way and
hopefully you walk away with a really
good idea of how to structure your
portfolio and resume for the next stage
of program
now folks
we're turning things up
we got through the big four we got
through our variables our functions our
conditionals our loops we added arrays
we're going to get some practice to
raise today but then we're adding
objects once we add objects we're
dangerous folks
we're real
dangerous we're real dangerous
right we're real dangerous once we have
objects we're going to start using apis
we're going to start being able to get
data from other places and manipulating
that data showing it to our users
building larger projects that are
actually really freaking cool
all right
and then we move into the back end so we
we got some we got some some objects to
do to start building some real meaty
projects some projects that are going to
be in your portfolio hopefully for the
rest of your life
we're turning it up a little bit turn it
up
you know how we do we always get a
review in we always make sure that we we
we we keep progressing at a good pace
but our projects are going to get better
the things that we're able to do are
going to get better
um
and so even though we're in the trough
of sorrow
right even though we're in the muck
it gets
eventually if you're rolling around in
the mud enough
you start to have some fun with it
right if you're rolling around in the
muck you start to have some fun with you
start to build some mud castles
right
right that's what we're gonna be we're
gonna be in the muck we're gonna be in
that trough of sorrow we're gonna have
some fun with it we're gonna build some
really cool stuff while we're in the
middle of that muck and i i guarantee
next week and the week after it just it
just gets a lot more fun like the the
practicality of what you can do and
build and work with real data build real
projects that's that's when it becomes a
lot of fun so you put in the work let's
see that work come to fruition and start
building some really cool stuff in the
next couple of classes
what about react we do back end first
and then add react at the end so that
way we can build full stack web
applications and then see what react
adds into that into that mix for us
jonathan said eloquent js equals trough
of sorrow code wars equals wiggles of
false hope uh we're we're we're nowhere
near the wiggles of falsehood but i like
the analogy
no
alrighty
kind of talked about this a bit
but we all we have the legos now we have
all these different lego pieces we got
our variables our functions our loops
our conditionals our arrays then we add
objects now we have the pieces we can
start the build and so for folks that um
feel like
uh they have all these pieces but don't
know what to do with them your code wars
help and then the next couple of clashes
up we're gonna build some cool stuff
you're gonna see how these lego pieces
come together so if you need a bigger
picture it's coming
trust me it's coming but we needed the
legos we needed the legos before we
could
put it all together
now we can build exactly
alrighty folks
the moment we've all waited for
the big news
now i put my warning up here i'll try to
keep the warning uh in the future for
whenever we use this like this code
party
section um but
next next
next slide is is gonna be loud
because we got some big news so i'm
gonna go over here to the big news and
then we're gonna hit it so in the next
few next 10 seconds or so
we're going to have some some confetti
some loud sounds so
late 2020
i had an idea
it was a pandemic
and i wasn't a doctor
i wasn't a nurse
so i didn't know what i could do to help
but i had an idea i said you know what i
think i can
i think i can help a few folks
maybe become software engineers
and so we did a very small cohort
of folks and hundreds of people showed
up
i was really expecting 10 folks here
with me on twitch and that that was it
and then that first like five week
course we were like holy crap
we might be able to do this thing we
might be able to teach a class
live
online we online folks
maybe we could teach a class maybe we
could teach it online and maybe we could
we could build a community of folks
that uh
that could go to distance
that could learn how to code that could
build some phenomenal projects that
could get some phenomenal clients and
could uh maybe get some jobs
and so we did that first run
and then in the second run
we set well at least i set the biggest
goal of my life one of the biggest goals
of my life one of the things that i've
ever like one of the biggest goals i've
ever put out there publicly and said
i want to do this thing
right i want to do this thing nobody
else has done this thing
i want to do this thing
right nobody is ever done a completely
free coding bootcamp online put
everything out there for free and in the
public
and i set a goal
and the goal is the namesake of our
bootcamp
our agency
and the goal is a hundred devs
and i'm here to say
learning how to code
[Music]
i'm gonna take it
i'll save our ears but we did it
we hit over
a hundred jobs
over
a hundred jobs we're not at a hundred
we're over a hundred
a hundred software engineering jobs and
a whole smattering of other jobs that
are in the related field as well but a
hundred folks that came to a hundred
devs
and got the support they needed to learn
to grow and to get a job as a software
engineer
we threw out into the world the idea
that a hundred thousand a hundred jobs
and we smashed through it
we smashed through it
we got our hundred we got more than a
hundred
we got folks going to some amazing
companies amazing jobs we got folks
going to uh the the the the companies
around the block those are my favorite
where they they can walk to work
we got some folks going to really great
startups we got some folks going to fang
we got some folks that
never even thought about code
but saw a freaking post on reddit
and now they're making six figures
we had some folks where their whole
family came where the husband and wife
came and they both learned together and
now they're both employed
we got folks that are in
dozens of countries that have gotten
jobs our first job was somebody from
brazil our second was somebody from the
uk and it kept going around the world
a hundred jobs
plus
so
we hit 100
but we're just
getting started
we're just getting started
so
the best news ever is that we hit our
hundred
but
i think we got some big things coming
our way
i think we got some amazing things to
come our way i think we can do something
a little bigger
maybe a little better
maybe a little bit bigger maybe a little
bit better
because let me let me let me throw some
numbers at you let me throw some numbers
at you before i get to my thank yous
before i before i get there let me throw
some numbers at you
when we were doing the original 100 devs
like legit cohort
we had about 300 people that were
watching the streams but really only 100
people were turning in the homework
so all the homework you can see
is public this is something that's
that's interesting like if you want to
see like who was really participating in
100 devs uh you can actually see all of
our all of our our homework assignments
actually wind up being
on github so you can literally see the
people that were submitting their
homework
right so we had about 300 people on the
stream
and we had about 100 people actually
doing the homework and keeping up
we got over 100 jobs
right we got over 100 jobs so for me the
folks that were keeping out doing the
work i feel like we got a good a good a
good clip of them
a good clip of the folks that were doing
the full work we got we got them right
now we're seeing kind of similar things
with this cohort we got about 3 000
people that come up to to class about a
thousand plus they're doing every single
bit of homework
right so for me i feel like
if we if we can keep the same numbers
then we can keep the same numbers
i think we might need to get a new goal
i think some things might need to change
but before we get to that before we get
to that before we think about the things
that might need to change i gotta i
gotta say some thank yous
i gotta say some thank yous
because it didn't happen we didn't hit
this hundred
we didn't hit this hundred by by
accident
this doesn't happen by accident
this happens
through a lot of hard
freaking
work
and it's not myself
it's not our fearless moderator crew
it's not all these folks that help make
100 devs run
at the beginning it's y'all it's your
work
we can't make you show up
we can't make you come to class
do the homework do the cold wars do the
networking get the clients
that's y'all
and so for the 100 folks that got jobs
plus last cohort they showed up
time and time again
they put in the work
they put in the hours
they did the networking
they did the portfolio building they
built their 100 hours projects they got
their clients
and at the end
all that hard work
came together where a hundred plus
people
got some amazing
amazing jobs
so
the first people i need to thank
are all
of our alumni
all the folks that put in that work to
make a hundred devs what it is for me to
be able to claim a hundred right
i don't get to claim 100 unless you all
do the work so the first people i got to
thank are y'all for showing up put in
the work and doing it because i can't
claim that number
unless you do the work
so thank you i really really do from the
bottom of my heart thank every single
one of you that show up that give me a
little bit of trust a little bit of time
i'm gonna get you there if you're here
if you're if you're part of this cohort
i'm going to get you there give me a
little bit of trust give me a little bit
of time i've now literally gotten
hundreds of people jobs through this
program hundreds of people's jobs
through this program and we're just
getting
started now there are some other amazing
folks that we have to thank
and
my thank you is gonna be a little odd
here because we're gonna do something
bigger
right
first and foremost i have to thank our
moderators our fearless moderators that
are always here in
twitch chat on discord discord's the
wild wild west y'all nobody's ever done
this nobody's ever thrown 28 000 people
into a discord and have it run with the
level of success that we've had we went
from like zero to 28 000 in less than a
year and so that to me is is absolutely
wild well sorry we went from like 2 000
28 000 in less than a year
so that if you've ever been on discord
and it wasn't a a hot mess if it wasn't
run amok with trolls and spam
that's because of the moderator team
and so i'm gonna thank each moderator
personally but tonight's that not that
nice i have something bigger planned so
each mod i'm gonna thank individually
because they deserve it
uh but that's not today that's gonna be
it's gonna be it's gonna be and
something that we're gonna talk about in
a few seconds
then i have to thank all of our
mentors
our helpers our folks that show up time
and time again to help folks in the
community that answer questions in our
help channels to answer questions or
support channels
this doesn't work without y'all too
and then the biggest folks again the
alumni that are in those channels
answering your questions giving up their
time they already went through the boot
camp
they have a job
and they come back on twitch on discord
to continue to help the next group of
folks make it through that to me
is the whole point of this
the whole point of this is not a hundred
jobs
it's for those folks to now bring three
more with them
so a hundred quickly turns into 300 and
then i think we have some bigger goals
that we need to hit too and when i when
we made that ask
we made the ask to our alumni hey come
back can you help with the study
communities can you help with uh new
events they answered the call every
single time
and so
a huge shout out to the alumni that come
back and give their time they made it to
the promised land they're coming back to
pull more folks with you
so
we thank you for being here we thank the
alumni we thank the moderators we
thanked all of our helpers on discord
but i want to do a little bit something
bigger i wanted i want to i want to do
something a little bit bigger
and
last cohort we did something that was
one of my favorite parts of the cohort
and we're going to do it again
i'm introducing
the best week ever now last cohort we
had the best week ever
but this cohort
we're really about to have
the best
week
ever so next week will be the best week
ever
we're gonna do some really amazing stuff
we got some things that people have been
asking for a long time
we got merch dropping
got agency opening up we got job board
opening up we got
merch
we got a sponsored class by microsoft
we got a lot of stuff folks that we got
to get these wheels moving
we got to get these wheels moving we we
we got too many of us
into into really great places we got to
keep it moving so
next week is going to be the best week
ever
we're going to have a chance to thank
all the folks that have made this happen
to reveal some really big stuff
uh open it up way bigger than we've ever
done it before have a sponsored class by
microsoft next week we learn git and
github and microsoft is sponsoring
github is sponsoring we got swag we got
laptops we got
amazing stuff so
today was the best news ever
uh to set a goal
and to knock that goal out the park
through the stratosphere to be way past
100 jobs we're past 100 like
like i don't know if you've been paying
attention to that celebrations channel
but uh
it's been kind of blowing up recently
like every day there's somebody new in
there
and so
we're way past a hundred uh i could i i
really honestly me and blah talk about
this a little bit every once in a while
i really thought it'd be me and 10
people max and i would help those 10
people and that would be it
so i can't in my wildest dreams ever
imagine that we have
uh 3 000 plus people here
all
trying to
learn how to code
maybe change their lives
maybe get that job that they've always
wanted have that security for themselves
and their loved ones to have a career
that's high growth that they know is
setting them up for life
if you're here
and you're ready to put in the work i
got you
it's no longer a hundred we're going for
something bigger
and so
at this moment
we're setting up the best week ever
and on the first day of the best week
ever i think we got some big changes to
make i think we i think we need a new
goal
and so
come back next week for the best week
ever
because we got some bigger goals to hit
we got some bigger things we gotta do we
got two bet we got too good of a
community
we got too good of a community to stop
at a hundred
this is the best place to learn how to
code live online we online folks we're
learning how to code and if you're here
i know that you can do it too i know
that you can join these hundreds you
have the ability you have the aptitude
you have the will you have now the way
that a hundred other people have
followed you can do this too give
yourself a little bit of grace give
yourself a little bit of trust give me a
little bit of trust in return i think i
earned a little bit of trust i think
after you get 100 people through that
through that gate yeah i think i got a
little bit of trust so give me a little
bit of trust and we'll get you there too
alrighty folks
thank you for
enabling me to hit a goal that i set
that i really wanted to accomplish
this really is one of the best things
that i've ever been able to accomplish
in my life it's something that i am
super proud of
and it's just
getting started next week best week ever
alrighty
let's get into our review i i know i
feel like we're on top of the world and
i'm just like all right javascript
now that was like javascript uh we had a
lot of folks that did some stuff but i
was in i was in ranty mode
um also make sure i go through these
uh we had some sound alerts we had a
hydration
lip dab thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
and a lot of sound alerts
dab was in here ay
all right folks thank you so much
oh
yeah hey thank you for the five kids and
subs appreciate you thanks for being
here
oh
people are saying what about the funnest
portfolios the funnest projects
well
since we're revealing the merch next
week we'll reveal who wins because they
get that merch
so we'll
we'll wrap that into the best week ever
uh so that folks that know who they're
winning who won actually know what
they're getting
yeah
cool
all right let's get into our review
let's get into our
practice here
programming remember
i feel so feel so wild to just jump
right into this
a computer will do what you tell it
to do
all right computer will do what we tell
it to do
what is the program
i'm sorry i'm still a big lead
computer will do what we tell it to do
there's a program while program is a set
of instructions that we write to tell
the computer what to do what is
programming programming is the task of
writing those instructions in a language
that the computer can understand we use
javascript to write those instructions
because it's a little bit more human
readable it's something that we can
understand and share that can then be
broken down into something that the
computer can understand
javascript has a specific syntax that
we've been learning
all these little extra bits and bobs
that make up the spelling and grammar
rules of the language parentheses there
curly braces there
javascript has a specific syntax that we
have to learn and pick up
we learned about the big
four right i'm too hyped to focus i feel
the same way i'm like
uh we learned about the big four we
learned about variables variables our
way of storing a value to be used later
on we literally store it into the memory
of the computer so we can use those
values later on we can declare a
variable and assign it at the same time
that's what we're seeing here
a declaration and an assignment
we also learned about conditionals
where conditionals are where we check to
see if something is true and if it's if
it is true we do it's in those curly
braces and then we stop that's it but if
it's not true we move on to our else if
the check if that's true if it is we do
is inside those curly braces and then we
stop but if the if is not true and any
of our else because we can have multiple
or not true
our else can auto magically run
and if that else auto magically runs it
doesn't check anything
it just does what's inside the curly
braces
we talked about danger of assignment
versus comparison this idea that when
we're inside of our conditionals if we
just do one equal sign that's assigning
a variable it's not comparing anything
we'll run into some issues
all right
we learned about multiple conditions
where we can have this double ampersand
where both of these conditions must be
true and today is the day where i feel
it the most folks today's the day where
i feel it the most where my name is leon
and in this moment
my status truly is ballin that's all i'm
gonna say hey
you get a wink there you go
can't say [__] to me today that's all i
gotta say
we also have ore right we also have ore
where as long as it is saturday or
sunday just one of these conditions is
true
uh then we can say it's the weekend
we learned about functions chat what are
functions what do they enable us to do
what do they enable us to do
yeah they're just sets of instructions
there are building blocks it's how we
build up our programs it's just sets of
instructions
and they're reusable uh the cool thing
is that we're starting to see these
functions kind of seep in everywhere at
first we just had regular function
declarations right where we had a
function
and then a regular call but now we're
also seeing like anonymous functions
where they're kind of thrown in where
functions are taking in functions right
we have this idea of like higher order
functions and these other things that
are coming in we're passing in arrow
functions so they become a really
essential piece of how we write our
javascript and it's really important
that we understand how to use them so
we're going to see a lot of functions
today again we're going to see a lot of
functions being used with our methods
when it comes to arrays and objects but
they really are the fundamental building
blocks of our program they're meant to
be reusable so that we can repeat
actions without having to retype the
code over and over again
so here we have a function call
we're passing in hello as an argument it
falls into our parameter of word
wherever we see word it's actually
hello
you could think of functions with
parameters as mad libs exactly dab
that's a really good analogy
you're just filling in the blanks
beautiful
loops what are loops dab when are you
streaming again come on we need you back
we need you now more than ever
i'll wait
can we get a stream dab
you just got you just got your new
computer so soon hell yeah let's go
uh dad's part of our stream team uh
these hundred i didn't think the stream
team the stream team willed folks across
that finish line there are folks on this
list
uh of the hundred that are only there
because of what dab did
uh what what what occ did
and and creating a space where they can
continue to learn where they could ask
questions so there are folks on this
list
that pulled up pulled individuals
through whether through code or support
they're on that list because of them so
big shout out to our stream team
dab we need you back
occ we need you back too i see you in
chat let's go
like i said i i wanted to put out the
general thank you but next week best
week ever i'm i'm putting it every i'm
calling you out your name's gonna be in
the slides
if you don't if you don't want me to put
your business out there let me know
because we got too many big folks to to
thank dave hey thank you for the good
this subs thank you for being here thank
you for all you do
all right
loops what are loops we already saw some
folks in chat we have the ability to
repeat an action multiple times right we
have the ability to repeat an action
multiple times we saw a couple loops so
far we saw four while and we got to a
raise we saw a couple other
big loops as well we saw things like for
each map we're going to see some other
ones today too
that enable us to loop through content
and do some stuff with it
we have our traditional for loop where
we set up our increment
we say how far
until the loop stops we go up by one
each iteration and so in this case we'd
be just printing
our numbers to the console until we hit
our end condition
beautiful
we also have a while loop which is
another similar loop where we start off
our count
and then inside of our count we go up by
one
each time so a little bit different
where we don't have in our for loop all
the stuff set up right away we have uh
the increment that we're keeping track
of we're incrementing it inside of the
loop and we still have our condition
that's being checked each time
cool
i don't get the difference between i
equals zero and i equals one when do we
use one versus the other all that is is
when you want to
all that is is when you want to
start
right
all it is is when you want to where you
want to start do you want to start
counting at zero or you want to start
counting at one the reason why you will
see a lot of folks start off with zero
especially if you're working with a
raise right if you're if you're gonna
loop through values in an array
it's always probably a really good idea
to start with zero because the index of
that array starts at zero
right so if you started at one you would
always skip the first value in the array
cool so in that case if you're if you're
looping through things in an array you
have to start at zero or else you're
gonna be missing things if you're just
trying to use the increment as a counter
you don't need to count zero you can
just start at one so like if you're
trying to say like one two three four
you could start at one but if you're
working with a raise you're probably
going to start at zero and a lot of
engineers kind of just start with zero
out of habit even if they were just
going to count they would still start
with zero
alrighty
today
we have all of our review code is power
ranger themed uh we're gonna get some
morphin time going on uh for those that
don't know the best tv shows ever made
are the bachelor followed up by the
power rangers we of course have today
highlight it for us the mike morphin
power rangers and we'll move into the
alien rangers then we'll hit some zeo
maybe a little bit of turbo you know if
we're feeling really really good
we'll maybe do a little bit of space a
little bit of lost galaxy a little bit
of light speed you know
but we'll slow down though we'll slow
down once we get the time for space
force you know all that fun stuff
but uh for tonight we're going to start
with our mighty morphin
review
let's go ahead and open that up
oh no did i not have it open already one
second
there we go
i'm gonna open it up we have the mighty
morphin
review
let's go ahead and open up this mighty
morphin review
we have the javascript file there's
review for variables functions
conditionals and loops
we're going to put
where are we at time-wise
let's put seven minutes on the clock
here
seven minutes on the clock see how far
you can get in these seven minutes
and then we will stop we'll take our
break and then we'll come back from the
break to review so seven minutes on the
clock you got this dig deep
and then we'll review uh after our break
so some minutes dig in you got this
mighty morphin review
blossom we're about to see some
flexosauruses yeah they can't help
themselves
not the jurassic but they they they
gotta go hard
update your vs code
no i haven't read the release yet the
release nets yet
i haven't read the release notes yet
i don't update definitely not midstream
let's just just click that little xy poo
there
live dangerously
where can i find the stream team folks
yes we have a special channel so
whenever
um folks go live on the stream team you
can see their notification and go live
uh there's a stream team channel on
discord make sure you turn that
notification on
as we have folks streaming on the stream
team again we have a lot of new folks
that are kind of in the process of
joining the stream team um we have two
that are ready to go and so as part of
the best week ever we'll we'll have
their their joining of the team will
make it a big deal
can we have another tourist space with
folks that got jobs yeah our goal
starting next week with the best week
ever is to do a space every week
so we're going to be mainly doing
discord spaces because it's a little bit
it's a little bit better and it's just
us we don't worry about um the riff raft
coming in oh yeah so we'll be doing some
twitter spaces but a lot of discord
spaces as well
and we're going to try and do that once
a week
i don't understand what the stream team
is it's just a group of folks that
stream learning to code or coding that
are part of the 100 devs family
what's the drink i got some
vanilla chai tea and some ice water
seltzer tonight that's the move
i like seltzer but it makes me um
do some sounds i don't think you all
need to hear
yeah
i like that too blah said no code
weenies no gatekeepers nobody trying to
sell you anything exactly
ain't trying to beyblade it up on stream
lee no definitely start um it you gotta
you gotta do it for a while and then
once you've been doing it for a while we
look at your vods and
make the call to add you or not
there that's awesome here thank you for
joining us
can i buy a sub with my leon dollars you
can get all the stuff like you can um
you can get all the emotes and stuff by
using your channel points
uh jm the stream team is on twitch
what that that's amazing
you got promoted to mid level right now
you're working on first solo large
site-wide feature that's amazing
congrats that's huge
well deserved
do you get more channel points if you
sub unfortunately yeah unfortunately
when you sub that like increases the
rate um
yeah
i mean it's a perk but i don't want
folks to ever feel like they have to sub
jw 330 hey thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
uh candacer is there some study to make
the commands work no sometimes just
multiple people have used the commands
and so it's not like it tries to stop
people from spamming them basically
uh j john this is stream beats by harris
heller
kabaddi all of our subs and donations
and stuff like that go to uh resilient
coders which is the nonprofit i work at
during the day
which we'll probably announce in best
week ever because we need to make our
next like big
big payment
can you promo megazord with javascript
that'd be a fun
fun project
alrighty folks
come on back come on back
alrighty so
let's take a look at the first one
together and then we'll take our break
we'll take our first one together and
then we'll and then we'll take a look at
the break
we'll take a look at the first one
together and then we'll take our break
the clear variable reassign it to your
favorite holiday make sure it's in all
caps and print the value to the console
if you want all the cap what do we have
to do
you want it in all caps what could we
what can we do to make it all cap
ah two uppercase
two uppercase so let's go ahead and
create a favorite holiday uh so let
favorite holiday
equal and we're going to say halloween
beautiful
and then i want to reassign it to be in
awe cap so i'm going to say
fave holiday equals fave and i could
have done this all in one line i'm just
gonna do it for readability to uppercase
beautiful to uppercase and then print
the value to the console so console.log
and we'll print favorite holiday let's
save this
let's make sure that it is working
open in default browser
oh look at that
that's good well i got this is tradition
i have to do all the poses and then
we'll see if it worked
all right let's go ahead and do it
all right i'll put the microphone over
here
all right we'll do black first
yellow
i'm gonna go ahead and do
green next
red
and do pink
before before before there was charlene
there was the pink ranger and then blue
there we go nice now we can see if it
worked
all right first try
halloween
is uh is all capitalized
all right
all capitalized
and it looks like it's working and so
what we can do now is we can rest
assured that we can take our break so
five minutes on the clock if you're new
around here we like to be healthy we
liked at the top of every hour so make
sure we're letting our
fingers and our
eyes get a little bit of a break so if
you're able please get up move around
hydrate
and then be back in five minutes we're
gonna go through the rest of this
together and we're gonna move on we got
a lot of fun stuff to get to tonight
really excited to get through a little
bit more review and then get into our
objects uh once we get the objects the
things things start to everything starts
to kind of click a little bit start to
learn some of the mysteries that is
javascript so if you're interested in
learning the mysteries of what is
javascript i'll see you in five minutes
so
you
um
[Music]
i think i forgot to run ads
whoopsie
[Music]
yeah i think they ran
uh die we always open up the links to
submit the clips after class so it'll be
open after class
super behind on the reading that's okay
noro
um
it's a lot the reading this week was
particularly a lot so you'll notice that
we've given a little bit more time for
some of the reading
lina lux hey
thank you for the raid
hope you're doing well
thank you for being here thanks for
bringing the crew along
what were you working on
what are you up to this evening
how did the um
bug fixing today nice
how did the uh the vote go the i know
you were up for the the award how did
that shake out
has that happened yet
welcome raiders hope you're doing well
for those that are new we're doing a 30
week software engineering bootcamp
night reviewing some arrays and going
into objects in javascript
it's announced friday alright let's go
turn up
fingers crossed
all right folks come on back let's get
in here
you're not following lena lecture you're
you're out of your mind at this point
i'm going gonna throw a shout out in
chat
boom
all right
i'm gonna copy this myself
definitely give them a follow you
haven't followed yet
um
alrighty welcome back let's chill the
music here we got some review to get
through so uh before the raid we had uh
started
working through
this review and so we had seven minutes
to do review then we took our break so
now we're going to finish going through
the problems together all right
the clara variable assign it a string
and then alert the last three characters
in the string
so this is one of those ones where you
probably had to do some some some
research
try to do some research on this one uh
so let's go and take a look at let's go
and do the first thing let's let's
declare our variable
so let's go ahead and do let
um
fave
power
rangers equal
and then i am going to go with oh
cool
yeah i'm saying it i'm going to say it
i'm going to say how that
i'm going to say it not not the favorite
ranger the favorite ranger is too that's
that's not something we can come to
terms with tonight like do you go black
ranger do you go green reader does the
white ranger separate from the green
ranger and what version of power rangers
are you talking about when you mention
the green ranger because it changes
we can't get there tonight so i'm going
to say my favorite favorite power
rangers series
series there we go
beautiful favorite power rangers series
because we can't get into that tonight
ninja storm's up there i see some folks
throwing that out there i'm going to go
to alien ranger that's where that's
where the game got changed the the the
the costuming the k like the movies ah
that's when it hit a stride folks
all right
so
i want to
alert the last three characters of this
string
so alert what could i do
who came up with a way to grab just the
last three characters
oh i see some folks with the slicing i
like that let's let's try that
slice
so we're going to do fave
power ranger series we're going to do
slice
and we're going to do negative
3 because we want the
last three characters so this is one of
those methods right we haven't it was in
some of the reading a little bit but if
you didn't see it in there we you had
the research you had to figure out all
right what could i use to get the last
three characters it's something you had
to google you had to dig deep find a
method so let's see if this slice 3
negative 3 works and then we'll talk
about why it works if it does let's go
back
let's refresh
all right erz did that work errs
let's see
hers is the last three letters of alien
rangers beautiful that did
work
uh so we have this slice
and slice is a method that could take in
a bunch of numbers and what we notice if
we pass in a negative number it takes
the last three so it's a beautiful way
to just grab pieces of the string are
there a bunch of other methods that you
could use yes there's substring there's
char we could treat the string as an
array there's all these other things we
could do
and one of the things and one of the
reasons why i asked you to do your code
wars right no jones the reason i
actually do your code wars is because
you learn all these little tricks and
these gotchas and these methods you get
to use them in a particular place so
that's a cool one all right first story
functions
create a function that takes in five
numbers subtract all five numbers from a
hundred alert the absolute value of the
difference called the function all right
so let's go ahead and create our
function
we're going to call uh minus
five and
abs for absolute i mean we're taking in
five numbers our parameters could be
whatever we call we could call them
rainbow unicorn monster
fire truck
ping pong it doesn't matter um but we're
just gonna know that they're numbers so
we'll do n1 and two
and three and four and n5 beautiful
and then we have to subtract them all
from 100 100 so let's do let's set up
our variable here let
difference equal 100 minus n1 minus n2
minus n3 minus and four minus
and five there we go so that's the
difference
and then alert the absolute value of the
difference so let's go ahead and do our
alert
and how the heck can we get the absolute
value
oh thank you chat
we got the
math.absolute and that's one of those
things like if you didn't know how to do
it you would have to go to the googles
right
uh
absolute value
in
java
script i might even throw an mdn on
there just to
to to get there because we see the mdn
has a math.absolute beautiful always go
straight to the mdn
all right there's an absolute function
that returns the absolute value so even
if i didn't know what absolute value was
right
even if i didn't know what that was i
could see that oh it's built in with
this math object that we'll get to in
the mdm we trust exactly now i can go
back i can trust that math.absolute is
the right thing and i'll pass in
difference
all right let's call the function as it
asks and we'll try it out
had to use that on my code wars today
that's dope that's awesome
cool
let's go ahead and do
-5 and alert minus five and absolute and
we're going to pass in some numbers
let's pass in
um
83 42
1 and 5.
beautiful
let's go ahead and run this and see what
we get
man these poses just get you going it's
gonna be like
no
i'm talking about
anyway everybody ever gives you a
problem just hit that post ah
boom
gets you going all right let's refresh
ers
58.
all right so it works so we got we got
the absolute value of 58. and we know
that the absolute value is working
because this would have subtracting from
we would have been way below zero
and so the absolute value
[Music]
the absolute value is working here
because we're getting we're not getting
a negative number it's giving us the
absolute value um people are saying uh
interview pose could you just imagine
you're in your first technical interview
and the whole time
you're just like this
just like you just hold in the pose
you're beast in the interview by the way
right you're beast in the interview
right but after like each question
you're just like ah right they give you
a behavioral question you're like
you're they they give you a technical
question you're like oh all right but
you're still you're crushing it right
i think you i think you still get the
job
i think if you're busting out the power
ranger poses and you're crushing it
that's all that's all the better you
heard that here that's my that's my
advice
in technical interviews please bust out
your power ranger moves guaranteed to
get the job
we don't get got dark shinobi a thank
you for the hydration cheers to you
instant 20k hiring points exactly all
right first try
going to the next one here
create a function that takes in three
numbers
console log the lowest and highest
values interesting all right
function
log high and
low
and we're going to take in three numbers
so we'll take in we'll just use the same
kind of thing n1 and two and three
and console log the lowest and the
highest
values and so for me the lowest and
highest values there's a couple ways i
can get them
anybody know what that what they did
oh i'm seeing some folks throwing out
min and max there is a math.min and a
math.max that is true
um
let's go ahead and do that let's go
ahead and say let
min equal math.min
and we will throw in
n1
n2 and n3 and what that should do
is based on these values that we passed
in
it should give us the minimum value and
place it in the variable min
we could have also sorted it that would
have been a different way to go about it
like sorting it and then taking um the
first and last that's that's totally a
way that you could have done this as
well
but let's see some of these methods
right we'll see sorting later today
we'll see some we'll see some sorting um
ones uh later on so we'll come back to
the store in a little bit
all right so we got math.min let's get
max
math.max
let's pass it in one and two and three
beautiful so now we have the min and the
max
pin and the max now we have the min and
the max what we need to do
is like use them
let's go ahead and what does it say
wants us to do a console log
let's go ahead and do our log
and we will let's use a let's lose a
template literal when i use a template
literal what am i starting my string off
with like how am i setting up my string
could you have done this without
declaring variables absolutely but i
like the readability of having the
variables
i got to use the back ticks here so i'm
going to say
the
the lowest
num
is and then i can use my bling syntax
where i can then go ahead and just put
min in here
is blank and the highest
num is and i'll use my syntax again and
i'll throw in max
so the idea here
is since i've used my back ticks i can
plug variables in using this bling
syntax where i do
dollar sign and then the curly braces
cool
let's see if this works let's call it
so we'll call
log high and low
and we're going to pass in some values
let's pass in
50 and 25.
so if this works we should see 25 and
100 in the console yeah way better than
concatenating exactly juice let's go
ahead and save this let's see if it
works and let's see where we're at
all right we got the ers we got the 58
and then we see the lowest num is 25 and
the highest numb is a hundred so it
looks like it's working
right looks like it's working
alrighty
and we can take a peek at this right
first try we can take a peek at this
where
what we did is we passed in all three
numbers right as our parameters
and we passed our parameters into this
min
into this min and that just grabs the
lowest number out of the three that we
had passed in same thing for max it's
gonna grab the highest number out of
three that we pass in and then i'm just
going to use my template literal here my
template string here and i can pass my
variables in without having to do any of
that nasty nasty
concatenation
my bling syntax didn't work make sure
you use the ticks and not quotes
you don't use the back ticks it won't
work uh the back ticks are on your
um
on your
on your um
tilde key so here's a normal keyboard
and then like right above the tab
is the tilde key that's what you're
going to hit
i can't show you on my actual keyboard
my actual keyboard is in a very
different spot
right there but on a normal keyboard
that's where it is
above the tab
yeah and then like different countries
it's gonna be a different spot
cool
i just showed you how dusty my keyboards
are it's kind of embarrassing
but it doesn't matter because first try
all right next one
all right
create a function
create a function that returns heads or
tails randomly as fairly as possible and
call the function as soon as you know
we're going to be doing something
randomly what are we probably going to
be using
ryan it is yeah
yeah math.random so we're seeing this
math object comes with a lot of goodies
and we're going to use this random one
as well so let's go ahead and create a
function
since we're getting heads or
heads or tails we're going to call this
heads
or tails
and
let's just go ahead and set up the the
result of like the flip
so we can do like let result
equal and then we'll do math
dot
random so what math.random is going to
do
is it's going to return a value between
zero
and one
right math.random is gonna return a
value between zero
and one
so
if we wanted to make it a 50 50 result
if we wanted to be a 50 50 result a
heads or tails
we could set up a conditional
right we could do a conditional that
checks for one half or the other half
so what i'm thinking i'm going to set up
a conditional and do an if
and i'm going to say if result
is less than what
less than 0.5 exactly if result is less
than 0.5
um we can
i was supposed to return so we'll return
heads
i guess we have to return like a string
of heads right we'll turn a string of
heads
and then if it's not less than 0.5 the
only other thing it can be
would be what
the only other thing it could be would
be tails
all right so the idea here
the idea here is that math.random
will return a number between 1 and 0.
so half the time
it'll be less than 0.5
and the other half
it'll be 0.5 or greater
right so one half it'll be less than 0.5
the other half will be 0.5 or greater
right now the the the reason why people
are saying like do we need the equals is
it's very specific it goes from zero to
one but it's not inclusive of one
right so it's not inclusive of one uh so
since it's not inclusive of one we don't
have to do the less than or equal to
it's between zero and one but doesn't
include one
yeah
so that's why we can just do less than
point five
cool i think this should work
looks good to me let's go ahead and call
it
select let's um let's throw it in the
console log because it's a return right
since this is a return if we just called
it it would poof in the thin air i see
the stretch i got you let's see if this
works and then i got you on nemog
all right let's go ahead and do this
heads or tails
we're going to call it and we're going
to call it inside the console log
let's go back
let's refresh we got some others that
have to run first boom boom and we got
tails nice let's refresh the page
boom we got heads all right so we know
we're getting heads and tails that
worked beautifully
couldn't have planned it better myself
all
right cool
let's go ahead and do this last one
first tree uh and we have a stretch
nemog 777 thank you for the stretch i'm
gonna do a real stretch and you know if
you really want to see me stretching
there's only one way you can get that
type of content so
that's the type of content you're
missing folks
only a million channel points come on
what's a million channel points only a
million channel points and you get that
lovely lovely content all right
somebody said how could we test this
know if it really works
well eventually we're going to get into
testing our javascript we're going to
write test cases so if you've been doing
your
code wars you'll notice that codewars
enables you to write test cases right
and so we could write test cases to see
if this works or not and we could run a
bunch of them so eventually we'll get to
testing later on in program towards the
end
but that's one way we can test to make
sure that stuff really does work to make
sure it is like functioning heads or
tails
yeah
all righty last one here
create a function that takes in a
number
console log the result of heads or tails
using the previous function x times
where x is the number passed into the
function called the function
all right hold on let me read this again
create a function that takes in a number
i know i write these but still sometimes
i forget what i write create a function
that takes in a number
console log the result of heads or tails
so we're just gonna we're just gonna run
the heads or tails function again
um x times where x is the number passed
into the function so all we're going to
do is we're just going to we're just
going to run the heads or tails multiple
times
uh and just result and console.log the
result so i'm just going to console i'm
just gonna comment that out so we don't
actually have that running up here
and
let's go and set this up function
we're gonna call this uh
i think last time i called it uh what
did they call it last uh yeah
flip flip
flip flip flip adelphia
there we go so we're going to call this
flip flip flipadelphia
and uh this is going to be our function
to flip a certain number of times uh so
it said x times we're just going to put
in here the the the number of times
right
so i'm just going to use n which is
short for the number of times that we
want this to run and then we can set up
a really simple for loop
so four
let i equal one i'll start counting at
one
uh while i is less than and we'll say
including that number one of the
mistakes we've made in the past is where
we forgot to include the equals because
we're going to go from one including
that number so we'll say n
and then we'll do i plus plus
okay
and then we're going to have result
result equal and we're just going to
call this function heads or tails
cool so what we're going to do is we're
going to call this heads or tails
function
each time the loop runs and the cool
thing is that this heads or tails
function is already set up to return
heads and already set up to return tails
so i actually don't need to do anything
special
other than
um
console logging the result
all right so this should work
let's um let's test it out
it's actually kind of hard to see this
all in one line so i think i'm actually
going to do this function in one line
i think we'll come back and do this one
line because i'm kind of having a hard
time getting them both on the page let's
see if this works
um let's go ahead and call it
flip flip adelphia
and we're going to do this 10 times
we should see 10 results we should we
should see 10 like mixing of heads and
tails
all right let's go back let's refresh
there's 58
all right so we got two heads two tails
and then
five more heads and a tail so this did
run 10 times
uh and it was it was definitely
definitely felt heads more than tails
and so what we can do let's make sure
this runs one time
let's make sure this runs one time let's
see
and let's refresh
boom boom
boom all right so it does run one time
so what we can do is we can yolo some
channel points right now folks this is
this is what we did we just we just
built ourselves a gambling machine uh so
let's yolo some channel points some some
of you want to get that sweet sweet
sweet of content but you need
more points so tonight's the night
thanks tonight folks
let's go ahead
um
start a prediction
uh we're gonna say
heads
or tails
and the first outcome will be heads
and the second outcome would be tails
you have a minute to get in here and i'm
starting it
now
all right so you can you can join the
prediction heads or tails you can risk
as many channel points as you want and
then we're gonna run we're gonna refresh
the page and whenever it says that's who
wins
all right let's see how many people how
many channel points people are throwing
up on this
you only got a minute to get in here
folks
oh
280 000 channel points on heads right
now
oh 400 to 6 300 oh first we might hit it
we might hit a thousand
we only hit a million channel points oh
yeah
we're we're
we're way over a million channel points
up for risk here folks
way over a million oh no what did i what
did i unlock in all of you
oh no
1.3 million to 1.2 million
[Laughter]
all in baby let's go all right
let's do it for all the channel points
let's see what we get all right let's
refresh the page
all right we got our ers
we got our 58 you ready
has it
tails got it
let's see let me let me confirm the
prediction
choose outcome
51 of you said tails so 1.5 million up
against 1.4 million
uh let's choose outcome it was tails
we're going to complete the prediction
all right so you should have gotten your
channel points there
the prediction result was tails
oh boy
we don't
hold on let's see the details of this
one
it was 50 50 in the end
i think the most channel points risked
was
49 000 channel points by honda civic
so honda civic risked 49k
and what the come up
is dangerously close to being over 100k
wow
wow congrats honda that was wild
oh no we got we got some big ones coming
in hold on let's see
people ready to splash out with their
channel points now
uh mx with the hydration cheers to
you uh pokemon card
and durie i'll get those at the end
and then
um diego splashed out with guide the
raid uh so diego send me a whisper
with the person you want us to raid in
the software and game dev category has
to be in the game software and game dev
category
uh semi-a whisper and uh that's who
we'll raid
cool has to be in the software and game
dev category we don't rate anybody else
double or nothing i don't want to i
don't want to unlock that and and some
individuals we'll run it back maybe
later maybe after our next break
i want to take a look at this though
before before we move on
before we move on
uh let's go ahead and
let's go ahead and take
let's take a look
at this right here how could i do
how could i do this maybe like all
on like one line
like i i like this function but we
learned some things in the past we saw
some arrow functions and we know
how to do ternaries exactly so let's
let's see if we can combine our arrow
functions and turn it i'm going to
comment this out
i'm going to say const
heads or tails and i'm going to set it
equal to
are we taking in anything
so we can go ahead and then do
let's go ahead and do
um
what's our math
dot
random
right math.random less than 0.5
right less than 0.5
and we're going to say if it is less
than 0.5 we return heads
and if it's greater than 0.5 we return
tails
let's see let's see if this works let's
see if this works
let's see if we still get a result let's
come back
let's refresh
boom boom all right still working we got
the tails
all right so let's talk about this
so for me
this is all in one line which is
beautiful
we got not tails again
it's rigged so that's the thing this is
the beauty this this is this is high
stakes
this is this would be like i feel like
we need to do this
i feel like we need to do a day
where we just risk channel points
this won't work out in my favor because
we'll hit the only fans where we risk
channel points but the code could be
right or wrong so not only are you like
you're trying to like
like risk your points
but like the code might be wrong and it
might favor
someone else dab i think we need to do
this dab i think me and you need to do
like a like a game show
where we write out code and we're either
like with chat or against chat we're
like we're throwing in bugs or not
throwing in bugs and we risk our channel
points i think that'd be really fun
let's keep that let's see if we can make
that happen
all right
so what's going on here is
we set up an arrow function
and there's two key things about the
arrow function
a lot of folks are saying what about
parentheses
well you only really need parentheses
if you know you're going to have
multiple parameters so you really need
the parentheses when you're doing
multiple parameters like x and i or
something like that right
right x and i right that that's that's
what what we could do there right
we could do x or i
right um we could do
just empty parentheses that's pretty
common
right
that's pretty common right
that's pretty common
um but it was all a bamboozle because
you can also do like i just do this
underscore right i do this underscore
just to say like hey i'm not passing in
anything
right
i'm just passing i'm just passing in
anything right like i'm not passing in
anything so i put the underscore for me
when i don't pass in anything i just do
an underscore and that's for me
and for the other developers i work with
to know like hey like i'm not i'm not
passing anything in it's just empty so
you can put any character there you want
it but i just do the underscore to say
like hey i'm not passing in anything and
this is a preference that you'll see
come up again as we get further into
javascript uh and then just the the
arrow
and then there's something wrong with
this code
this code ran
it it gave us a result but there's
something wrong
while y'all were working on the
parentheses over here the real
parentheses we were missing we're here
there we go
so now it'll actually do
random because random's a method and i
forgot it right so second try
um
so here now if we want this random
method to run we actually need the
parentheses right it won't run without
the parentheses and so since this always
fails right since it always fails we
would always get tails but now that we
have the parentheses this should work
and now we should get heads or tails
good on y'all that noticed that that was
a good catch
beautiful all right and it still works
let's run it a few times just to make
sure we're good
heads great so now we see that it's
working beautiful ah yes occ also
brought up the implicit return
uh this is an implicit return we don't
need the return keyword
like we don't need the like we have the
return keyword
we have the return keyword up here we
don't need it with an arrow function
because there's something called an
implicit return it just does the return
for you
right it just does the
no bright side that's why
uh it just does the return for you so
what winds up happening
is we're gonna call this heads or tails
function
we check to see if it's less than 0.5
like the math.random gives us the number
between 0 and 1. if it's less than 0.5
we implicitly return heads
if it's anything other than less than
0.5 we implicitly return tails so that
means down here we're just returning
heads or tails whenever we call it
beautiful
flip flip flip adelphia
yeah there's nothing here telling it the
console log it's down here where we're
doing the console logging
yeah
because we we call this function here
and what winds up happening is we wind
up running this function each time the
loop runs and the heads or tails gets
returned to where the function is called
so we get heads returned here we get
tails returned here over and over again
cool
alrighty
it's one of those ones to come back with
play around with it get into the muck
with it you'll kind of see these tern
areas pop up here and there but if
you're like if you're looking i want to
get better at this stuff here there's
one thing you can do that will help you
get better at like understanding and
writing this kind of code
i i didn't know how to write this code
until i started doing something very
specific yeah that's code wars exactly
um i i saw this pattern i first saw this
pattern probably on code wars
right
i probably saw this on code wars i
incorporated this is definitely my anki
like this whole line is in my inky i
incorporate it into my anki
and now i can recall it with pretty good
precision pretty quickly
yeah
um can i explain it in a pseudo code
kind of way well it's just that we have
a function
we have a math.random where it returns a
zero between zero and one and so if
whatever value comes here is less than
0.5 that winds up being a true statement
and whenever you have a true statement
on the left-hand side of a ternary you
automatically
grab the heads it's the sorry you grab
the the left-hand side so you would grab
heads in this case if for whatever
reason this evaluates to false you would
grab what's on the right hand side of
the colon it's the same thing as the
conditional here don't let it don't let
the ternary scare you this is the exact
same thing as having an if and an else
this is the if the if is true and this
is the else if it wasn't that's all
what's an anki anki is our space
repetition tool that we use it's kind of
like flash cards with an algorithm
behind it
if this is your first class with us our
very first class on youtube you can do
exclamation point youtube covers anki
and why you'd want to use it
cool all right let's move on folks
cool
we talked about arrays we talked about
arrays a lot this last two classes
chat what are arrays
i still don't get the underscore it's
just a it's just a it's just a parameter
instead of doing like x or i because i'm
not going to use it i just do underscore
and that just lets me know hey this is
like empty i'm not going to use this at
all we could have put an x there we
could have put an i there it could have
been any other we could just put empty
parentheses but since i don't actually
need a parameter there i do the
underscore
yeah raise are toasters exactly and when
we say a toaster what we really mean is
an element
that can store other elements right a
data structure that can hold other
things
and so we like to think of bill gates
toaster where it can hold a bunch of
stuff and every single time it needs to
add something new it gets a new slot and
a new slot and a new slot
some tricky things with arrays is that
they start they're counting or index
with what
zero
exactly
there are two different ways to create a
raise there's this constructor way which
we'll actually start using probably on
thursday or tuesday because we'll
understand how to use constructors when
it comes to objects but the way we've
been using it so far is using literal
notation using square brackets where we
literally create an array
when we create an array we can put
elements inside of the array
and we also have the ability to pull
stuff out or put stuff into an array
using its index 0 1 2 or 3.
if you're new this is all stuff that
we're doing a review that's why we're
going through it kind of quickly we have
two or three classes that you can find
here on twitch and then on youtube that
go through this in detail
alrighty so here uh here's us grabbing
stuff out of the array using its index
new array zero gives us zebra
new array one gives us undefined y
agent hanzo hey thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
it's empty exactly there's nothing in
this space right there's nothing in this
space
so we get undefined
and then we grab the the element and the
second index so 0
1 2 so we get true and then here's us
grabbing the element in the third index
2 3 we get 21 21 21 21 beautiful
we can also put stuff into an array
using the index so here i'm grabbing
that undefined space and plopping the
string of bob into it the spaces don't
have to be empty for us to put stuff in
we could just have easily changed this
to zero and overhead zebra to be bob
uh the tricky thing is that we can
actually overwrite whole arrays with
arrays and so you can overwrite a whole
array by assigning an array to a
different array so here we have two
arrays cars and nums we set cars equal
to nums and we ask for cars we get one
two three
we can also get the a length off of an
array and let and keep that in your keep
that in the back of your brain we can
get the length of an array because it's
gonna we're gonna get the objects later
today and we're gonna have to come back
to this so we can get the length of an
array and it'll tell us how many
elements are in that array and the
tricky thing is that it counts starting
at one so the indexes start at zero but
the length starts at one
all right
we can also iterate through arrays where
we're trying to pull each value out of
an array uh we saw a simple way of using
a for loop right with a for loop we can
just kind of grab a number and count
from zero to some number and we can use
that number to pull values out of the
array so i start my increment of i at
zero
and that's because the very first time i
want this to run right the very first
time i want this to run oh
that's such a good question
muhammad asked a super good question
why does length
not have
parentheses at the end
hold hold on just hold that's that's
such a beautiful question we're going to
get there today i will answer that
question by the end of today what a good
question
all right we start our account at zero
blowing it up
but yes
we're starting to count at zero so we
can use the index best colors zero would
give us green then one would give us
blue two would give us yellow three
would give us black
we can also use methods that are built
in with arrays to help us right
to help us loop through our content so
for each is a goblin that runs
and each time it runs it grabs the
element its index and the actual array
that it comes from and passes it in to
this function what kind of function is
this
what do we call this is what kind of
function is this
yeah it's an arrow function
um
some in previous time we would have used
anonymous functions just functions
without a name because we're passing a
function into a function we don't need
all that declaration syntax or any of
that stuff we don't need the function
keyword because we're passing it in as a
what we're passing it in as a what
as an argument exactly we're passing it
as an argument
beautiful
all right
we also saw some wonderful methods that
came with a raise other than for each we
saw shift
pop
unshift you saw all these wonderful
methods let's run through them again so
here we have an array
best wrappers 2020 on that list we have
six nine polo g and six nine
pretty quickly we shift off
six nine it's what it does is it takes
the beginning of the array
and pulls it off
if you were to just do shift you could
grab that first value off and it would
poof evaporate into the ether but we've
actually stored it in a variable called
removed and so right now
six nine is pulled off
and it's stored in the variable removed
however if we ask for best rappers 2020
we can see that the array has changed
and no longer has that first six nine
it's just polo g and six nine on the
right hand side
right so we shift shift takes the first
thing off of an array and pulls it off
next we learned how to pop so when we
pop we take the value that's at the end
of the array and we take that off so
shift is off the front
pop is off the end and so when we ask
for
best rappers 2020 we wind up with is
just
polo g at the moment
right
just polo g at the moment because we've
we've already shifted six nine off we've
shifted the other six nine off sorry
we've popped the other six nine off and
we just have polo g left
pop lock and drop it a
yeah you don't know about that huh
i don't know about that huh
all right i see you
you don't know
huh
learn something new today
all right
so we're left with just polo g because
we we shifted off
and we popped off beautiful
now we can actually do the almost kind
of opposite right we can unshift which
is putting something on the front so
here i had just polo g
and i unshifted dylon so now dailon is
on the front of best wrappers 2020
and we can do the same on the other side
we can push
dailon onto the back of the array so now
when we look
we have dailon dylon pologian dylon
rk mace hey thank you for the gift of
subs thank you for being here
beautiful so now
we have
in the best wrappers 2020
we have dailon pology and dailon because
we we shifted off and popped off six
nine and then we we unshifted and pushed
dylon
beautiful
now the last method that we saw was map
and map is going to run once for each
element in the array
but map does one very specific thing
what what does map do what makes map
different like what does it
do we have more viewers than timberland
timberland stream and that's wild
without the timberland
it returns a brand new array
exactly returns a brand new array
wonderful so if we are going to run once
for each
element in the array
does map do anything what is what's the
only thing that map returns this is this
is an implicit
this is ray timberland this is an
implicit return right so the only thing
this map is doing is returning what
the only thing this does is it returns
dylon so if we know that this map is
going to run three times what we're
really doing is creating a new array for
best rappers of all time
that has dailon in it that's the first
time it runs then it's going to grab
polo g but it doesn't do anything with
it it just returns dylon
and then it's going to run a third time
it doesn't even matter that it was dylan
it still just returns
nylon
so the only thing that a map does is
spit the hot fire right and so here we
wind up with best wrappers of all time
just being dylon dylon dylon
and then for the last
the last
two things to add here
we unshift dylon onto the front and we
push dylon onto the back and so when we
console log the best wrappers of all
time we have dailon dailon dailon dylan
and dailon
beautiful
alrighty folks
we have another review to do but since
we're at the top of the hour let's take
our
break
let's take our break let's put five
minutes on the clock here folks five
minutes on the clock
we're new around here we like to be
healthy we like to take our break
[Music]
pull in there add it two minutes to the
timer let's go ahead and this is now a
seven minute break timer
beautiful
let's go ahead we're going to take a
seven minute break that hour went fast
it sure did and when we come back we're
gonna do a review and then we get to
objects folks i'm super excited to get
the objects all right so let's go and
take some minutes on the clock uh if
you're able to please get up and move
around i'm going to run the ad so new
folks don't have to worry about it
um
do
[Music]
ready
45 seconds left
do you know the total salary of the
hundred devs who got jobs
were over four million i gotta add some
new folks but we're over four million
now i'm gonna start releasing like what
i know about all the folks so we'll
release kind of like the stats and stuff
like that but yeah we're over four mil
all right folks come on back come on
back
alrighty
alrighty folks come on back come on back
let's go ahead and take a look at this
review and then we're going to jump into
objects so it's the alien rangers review
go ahead and open that up
we have three questions here
and i'm gonna go ahead and put let's put
five minutes on the timer five minutes
on the timer
give it your best shot
and then we'll go over it together
can we petition them to change unshift
to add to front yes i think it'll be a
good petition
all right five minutes
go at it you have it
and we'll go over it together
you got this folks again
hey glad to hear it phillip
best dc superhero
does vertigo get put into that
um i mean it's batman like why am i
going to front i'm going to be like oh
let me let me impress you with my vast
comic book knowledge
it's gonna be batman
all right folks three minutes 30 seconds
you got this dig deep
i haven't seen a new one yet i'm still
afraid to go to
movie theaters soon
what's your favorite megazord now we're
talking um
i mean the most nostalgia is definitely
the the mighty morphin right you can't
beat that like
symbol of your childhood
i think when they got to light speed
rescue they did some more interesting
stuff like graphically
i have to say mighty morphin
ninja storm was pretty cool yeah
i know party wounds that's true
two minutes two minutes
yeah the assembly sequence was pretty
lit
do you watch any k drama no i have not
ever really got into it i have a feeling
that if i did start it'd be a it'd be a
problem for me so
how do you all remember this from your
childhood i watch power rangers but i
don't remember this stuff because i
watch it as an adult
i love power rangers
uh
i kind of like stop like anything like
after dino thunder is like too much for
me but
anything like
pre-dino thunder i've probably watched
all the way through like as as an adult
uh the second lowest mean including or
excluding it would it would be including
i guess for this example
got some fun some folks coming with the
dunzo it's got a few folks that got
something the last one that's okay we're
gonna go over it together
alrighty
30 seconds left got some dunzo's rolling
in
i always wanted that green dagger toy
i've been um
i was i'm
i
i don't know why i'm telling people this
i i've been 3d printing different swords
and that's on my list
i just did some test prints earlier to
get a collapsible lightsaber
um but yeah i'm doing a bunch of
different like
like toy swords
because i i print like
i like to print a lot of like i guess it
would be like toy stuff but
it's been fun
i have my bulbasaur right here i print
it which i really liked
yeah that came out clean
looks pretty good
to me a 3d printer is like the best the
best toy you could ever give a kid
because you can get printers now like i
know 200 is not is nothing to
slouch about but for like less than like
a um
less than like a gaming console they can
build whatever toy they want like the
plastic's like ten dollars
and then for like half of a gaming
console they can build whatever toy they
ever want and they're all like free
online yeah
that's pretty dope to me
all right folks come on back come on
back let's go over this together
yeah it's i i use my 3d printer for d2
like i have a bunch of miniatures that
i've printed off that was pretty cool
there was a humble bundle that had a lot
of like really good miniatures in it and
i've been using those
first one done hey caleb that's awesome
congrats
all right let's come on back let's go
through it
we're printer to use i have an ender 3v2
um i have the bl touch mod on it a new
hot end some other like fancy stuff
glass plate but not too many mods i'm
putting octoprint on it today well
hopefully this week
yeah
anyone else immediately undoing the
timers yes i hope you do some folks like
the complete silence some don't so i
like to just keep talking because
i think some folks just prefer that in
the background but always feel free to
mute me that's why i leave the timer up
right the timer i leave up so if you
don't want to hear me blab on you can
just mute me and then see the timer go
off and come on back
alrighty
create an array of tv shows
loop through
and print each show to the console so
let's go ahead and we're just going to
start off by
um putting our we'll just use the same
shows we did last time let's do power
rangers to let power
rangers equal
and then we're going to go ahead and do
mighty
morphin
here's my thing about power rangers
though they they had new power rangers
move but they didn't do it right
the way you do hold on
the way you do a modern power rangers
movie is thus
you know cloverfield
right cloverfield is like dark and
they're like on a roof there's a bunch
of like teenagers hanging out right and
then like something starts to attack you
don't know what's attacking but it's
just like these like cool kids hanging
out it's really dark it's gritty if you
had gone to cloverfield
having no idea what it was and they're
just like these older teenagers hanging
out on a roof someone starts attacking
and they all just go it's boyfriend time
you would have lost your absolute like
you would have lost your mind right like
you just would have been it would have
it would have blown your mind that's how
you do a new power rangers movie you
don't tell anyone it's a power rangers
movie you just let some [__] go down and
then right as it's about to get really
bad you just go
morph in time and then like everyone
like
if i see that's the [__] out if i was a
billionaire that's the [__] i would do
no build up no hype you're going there
for something completely different and
then your mind's just blown that it's a
power rangers movie that's how you do it
all right mighty morphin
uh
we'll say alien rangers
i spell right ally in rangers and then
we'll say um
neo beautiful now we have our tv shows
loop through and print each one to the
console so what type of loops could we
use here
what kind of loops could we use here
we use a for loop just like a generic
for loop we can use a for each let's use
the for each because we we've been we
want to get some practice in let's go
ahead and do power rangers and we'll do
four each
and then we're going to take in
uh each each value so we'll just say um
uh show
and we will we're gonna print each one
to the console so we'll just console.log
log each show and so what this is going
to do
is we're gonna run once for each element
in the array
we have
one two three elements in the array so
this four each will run three times
each time it's gonna run it's gonna be
the goblins to run and grab mighty
morphin and then plug it into show
then it's going to grab alien rangers
and plug it in the show and then it's
going to grab neo and plug it into show
i'm saying neo instead of zeo is this
you or yeah i keep saying neo i don't
know i keep saying neo zio
could you imagine
all right
and so what winds up happening
is that mighty morphin gets console
logged
then alien rangers gets console logged
and then
zeo gets console logged
right beautiful
i did just watch the the matrix yeah
that's why
alrighty
let's uh let's save this and let's make
sure this john actually runs
good let's open this in the browser
look at that that's so fire
this is why alien rangers are the best
look at this
i'd wear that right now
get me this black fit it's over
kanye might have changed his life but
i'm still an old-school gemini look at
that
fire
all right
let's refresh
we don't actually have anything printing
to the console let's go back and take a
look
why did nothing print to the console
bark said save my guy exactly let's go
ahead and save
we didn't save so now we can come back
and refresh
second try
we got mighty morphin we got alien
rangers and we got zeo
that that's that's that's the whole
that's the second layer of this stream
is i just say a lot of stuff and if you
know you know but most of the time it's
just rap lyrics so a lot of stuff i say
is like not actually true it's just rap
lyrics so if you're in you're in if
you're out you're out i don't know i
can't i can't i can't help you
all righty
quick maths indeed return a new array of
numbers that includes every even number
from the previous array so oh sorry we
have to create an array of numbers and
then we have a second prompt here so
let's go and create array of numbers
let numbs equal and let's just throw
some give me some numbers chat can you
give me some numbers please
21 of course
and 710.
cool all right thank you for those
numbers
all right let's return a new array of
num return a new array of numbers that
includes every even number from the
previous arrays
so
only a new array that only has even
numbers so
let's go ahead and let's just do this as
like an arrow function
um let
only only evens
only evens equal
and then we know we're going to pass in
an array
we're passing in an array
and that array
we want to get just the even numbers so
did anybody know something we can do
to get only even numbers is there like a
method or something that we could use
yeah we can use a filter method with
modulus so let's try the filter method
so we'll do array.filter
and the cool thing about filter is it
runs once for each element in the array
and it checks to see if something is
true
if it is true
it includes it in that new array
so let's go ahead and take a look at it
so we can filter we said we're going to
do
excuse me
let's go ahead and say array filter
we're going to take in a value
num
and we'll say well num is
modulus two
if that equals zero
so that equals zero
then we know that it's true
that should work
like if the number modulus two
all right let's let's see let's see
where i'm at with this one real quick
um let
oh sorry let's console.log don't worry
i'm gonna come back to let me let me see
where i'm at console.log
only evens
and let's pass in nums
all right let's see where we're at i
mean let me add some spacing here so
people can see what we're doing
let's save this
all right and let's refresh
cool so we have a an array that got
console logged
that has 56 88 24 and 7 10 in it first
uh and so that was only the even numbers
that were in
that nums array so let's take a look and
see where this comes from so here's our
nums array
and here we have a
function
called only
evens
only evens
here we have an arrow function
what i am doing is i am going to this is
going to be a function that will work
with any array right it'll work with any
array and so i know i'm going to pass in
an array so i name my parameter
array
right i name my parameter array
then i run the filter method on that
array
it's the same thing as running the map
that we had right like the map we had
before it filters just another method
built into javascript that can do some
heavy lifting for us what the filter
will do
is it's going to help us set up a new
array just like map sets up a new array
filter set up a new array
and to add a value to this new array
this statement winds up having to be
true
so if it's not true we don't add that
value to the array so the very first
time this runs we are filtering through
nums because nums is the array that we
pass in we called only evens
and we pass in nums so wherever we see
array
is
nums so that means array right now is
holding the 21 56 88 24. 99 and the 7
10. so how many times is this filter
going to run
how many times is this filter going to
run just like map would run multiple
times how many times
is
the filter going to run
yes
the filter is going to run six
times there are
six
numbers in the array
right there are six six elements in the
array so this filter is going to run six
times now
the very first time it runs
what is n the very first time
21 21 21 21 21 all right so
does 21
modulus 2
equal 0.
no
21 is not an even number 2 does not go
into it evenly so that that's a false so
do we add 21 to our new array
nope
all right
next we're going to try 56
wherever i see n it's actually 56
does 56 mod 2 equals zero
yep so then we add 56
to our new array and we get a new
n
now it's 88
does 88 mod 2 equals zero
yep so we add 88 to our new array
then we try 24
is 24 mod 2 equal to 0
yes
we add 24.
now
is 99
mod 2 equal to 0
no
2 does not go into 99 evenly so do we
add it to our array
nope we do not add it to our array and
then the very last time this runs
n is 7
10.
is 7 10 modulus 2 equal to 0
yes
2 goes into 710
evenly
and so we add
to our new array
now
the funny thing is
this new array
what happens to this new array look
right here we talked about this earlier
this new array is created right here
what do we wind up doing with the new
array that we just created there's
something very specific that's going to
happen here
there's something that when we use the
arrow functions that happens
yeah
it's an implicit return
so that means that the new array that we
just created
it gets returned to where it's called
so it's as though only evens was not
here but our new array holding 56 88
and 710 that gets put into the new array
and that's what gets console logged
right so the beauty here is that
the filter
is going to create a new array for us
and then whenever it's done creating
that new array
it gets returned to where it was called
and that's why we see the new array
being console logged
what does the n mean it's just a
parameter
just like array is a parameter uh
they're just parameters we're going to
call them anything we call it we could
have called it robot and unicorn and it
wouldn't have mattered
cool if this is tripping you up don't
worry this is like the first time we're
seeing arrow functions in the wild
come on sunday and we'll redo some
problems like this where we'll do it
without arrow functions and with arrow
functions uh so we can see both ways
cool
last one here
create a function
that takes in an array of numbers
right create a function that takes in an
array of numbers
alert the sum of the second lowest and
the second
highest
number so we already have nums so let's
just use
um well it says create a function let's
create a function let's start there
function
um
sum of the second and highest lowest so
we're gonna do uh sum
second
low and high
there we go so we know we're gonna take
in an array of numbers so i'm just gonna
call our parameter array
and we're going to return the sum of the
second lowest and the second highest now
if i want to make my life easy
right i want to make my life easy
how can i
get my numbers in a way that i could
grab the second highest and the second
lowest
yeah i could just sort them if i if i
just sort them
i just sort them then i can um
then i can just then i can just use the
indexes right i can just go one in and
two from the end and grab them and i
should be good so i i see your i see
your stretch when she i got you after
after let's do this real quick so
um let's call let's sort it
equal and all i'm going to do is sort
the array array.sort
and then i'm going to take in a and b
and boop
a minus b
this is how
you sort numbers
in an array now
let me ask you
how do you think i was able to bang that
out so quickly
is it something that i just implicitly
knew because i am a elite developer
no
this is something that i learned way
back in the day from coding challenges
probably from code wars
right this sorting is something that i
had to
figure out how to do to solve a code
wars and then once i learned it for the
code wars i added it to my anki deck and
this pops up once every i don't know
year or so because i've seen it so many
times right but it's not something that
i would know
just because like i know how to code
it's something that i
researched to solve a code wars i said
hey this sorting thing is probably
really really beneficial
i added it to my anki deck and i review
it constantly so when i do see this
problem come up again this pattern comes
up where i have to to to get numbers in
a certain order boom sort it and call it
a day so hint
these things to your anki deck we've
showed a lot of stuff today that should
definitely be in your enkei we saw a
filter for really the first time we saw
a four each again we're seeing a sort
these are things that you need to come
back to you need to spend some time with
these outside of class to see how they
work to see how they how that how like
you break them down um
the reading and the videos also work
through a lot of this stuff as well so
it all kind of comes together to see it
but it definitely needs to be in your
anki
when i add it to my anki how is it it's
just this
how do you sort an array of numbers and
on this other side would be this
literally this exact code cool so now we
have sorted numbers
and we want to alert the sum so we know
we're going to wind up adding two
numbers
now that my numbers are sorted how can i
get the second lowest number
what's happening with the a and b it
really doesn't matter this is just how
you sort
from low to high in in javascript you
can reverse the bna and go from high to
low
that's kind of what's happening it's
just it's just the specific way that
we're sorting once we get to our data
structures and algorithms at the end of
the cohort we'll really break down
what's happening inside this sort
function to need the a and b but at this
point you really don't need to know
what's happening inside the sort
function because we're not trying to
write super efficient code yet but when
we get to our data structures and
algorithms in the course we'll break
that down
cool
our numbers are
sorted
right
there's a lot of weird things that we
could do i'm seeing some folks pop some
folks are saying pop the min and max
and then you're left with like easier
numbers i'm seeing some splicing and
some slicing and stuff like that
um but we know that the lowest number
would be array what what index would be
the lowest number
yeah
array zero will be the lowest number so
the the highest number
the highest number has to be
sorry the second lowest if the lowest
number is is index zero the second
lowest would be what
one exactly so we know the second lowest
would be one because the lowest is zero
and we're going to add that to the
second highest so we've seen this before
where we do array
and we do
dot length
uh minus what would give us the highest
number
right what would give us sorry yes it's
sorted not array good call good call
it's sorted sorted as our sorted array
whoops good eye thank you for that
um
beautiful because we're dealing with our
sorted array right so not our original
array so if we wanted to get the the
highest number
it'd be minus one
but we want the second highest so it'll
be minus two
right and then let's go ahead and
call this function and pass in some
numbers
so
we're gonna sum
second low and high
and let's pass in some numbers let's
pass in
um let's just do
let's do one two three four and five but
let's mix them
two three four one
let's do one
five four there we go so we have one two
three four and five
all mixed up
and so if we want the the second highest
and lowest we should see two and four
be added together for six so if this
works we should have six
so let's save this let's go back
i should have my sword printed already
this wouldn't fire add that sword up
there oh
that would have been legit all right
anyway let's refresh
and we can see the six gets alerted
right so it worked the two and the four
got added together we got the six
alerted
beautiful
all right
so we saw some sorting
we we used the the knowledge of our
indexes to grab the second lowest and
the second highest we added them
together and then we alerted them
beautiful
thank you enlightened that's beautiful
to hear
brook that's awesome here cool
all right now i need i need to i owe a
stretch so let me do my stretch you know
if you want that good good content you
got to start yoloing some more channel
points to get the of
uh run second
hmm
oh yeah
alrighty folks
we got through some review if you want
to see more
if you want to see more of these types
of practices where we're using more
methods we're using arrow functions
we're starting to like do things in
slightly different ways and you want to
see me review it with regular functions
and then try it with the arrow functions
come sunday sunday we're going to do
some questions like always but we're
going to spend a lot of time with
methods uh so if you want to come back
and see these methods you want to see
more arrow functions let's do that
review on sunday together
hippie sue hey thank you for the five
gifted subs thank you for being here
alrighty
let's get to the goods today folks the
goods
are
objects so
objects are really the last
puzzle piece that we need
to
kind of start building some really dope
stuff
once we understand objects your mind you
become you become enlightened in terms
of javascript there's gonna be we're
gonna we're gonna set some some things
up today and then i am literally going
to blow your mind on thursday like your
mind will be obliterated on thursday in
in the best way possible so we're gonna
touch on objects right now get the get
the juices flowing and then come
thursday just
mine explosion uh so let's get into it
the wonderful thing about javascript
is that every
single
thing
is a what
is an object keep that thought in your
mind every single thing is out there get
down your mind what objects are
are collections of variables and
functions
if you
look at an object
all it really is is a collection of
variables and functions just like the
variables and functions that we've
already seen
and these variables and functions
they represent the attributes and the
behavior
of that object now when we're talking
about objects we call the attributes
properties and we call those functions
we call those
methods so the variables we call sorry
the variables we call properties and the
functions we call methods the attributes
we would call our properties and the
behaviors we would call our methods and
so at first it's kind of hard to wrap
our brain around so
let's think of an actual physical object
like something that we could really
think of right uh for me right now i'm
thinking of my water bottle so i have a
nice nalgene bottle here full of
delicious ice water one second
now this water bottle has some
attributes and behaviors
it has some properties
and some
methods
what is an attribute of this water
bottle
it has a lid color of
black
it has a
full property
of
well 60
it has a
shape property of cylinder
it has a brand
of nalgene
right so we can think of all these
different
physical attributes
that describe this water bottle
right not only its shape and color but
also kind of like
how full it is like all the different
things we could use to describe
the attributes of this
water bottle
now what are some of the behaviors of
this water bottle
what's something that it can do
it can open right
make you pee
it can open and close open and close so
there are attributes that describe this
water bottle but there are also
behaviors that describe this water
bottle like opening and closing
beautiful
let's continue this
train of thought with an object that we
can all think about and let's think
about a stopwatch
what are some attributes
of this stopwatch
this is a physical object that has some
attributes what are some attributes of
the stopwatch
now don't don't throw out the value a
lot of folks are throwing out the value
this has a color attribute that has a
value of black we want to say the
attribute is black we would say that the
color
attribute is black
how about the shape attribute the shape
attribute is round
the
brand attribute is accusplit
the model
attribute is pro survivor
the
minutes
attribute is set to three the seconds
attribute is set to 59. hey thank you
for the hype train everybody uh the
milliseconds
property or attribute is set to 45. so
we can think about a physical
a physical stopwatch and think through
all these attributes of this object yeah
its shape its brand its color all these
different things that make up the
physical attributes of this object but a
stopwatch also has some behaviors
what are some behaviors of this
stopwatch
yeah it can start it can stop
it can split it can beep right so there
are a lot of behaviors that this
stopwatch has and so when we think about
physical objects we can think about
their attributes and we can think about
their behaviors
and when we think about these objects
it's the same thing when it gets to code
arc our objects in javascript are going
to have some attributes and they're
going to have some behaviors when it
comes to javascript
objects we call those attributes
properties
and we call those behaviors
methods
and underneath the hood our properties
are really just variables
color equals this shape equals this
and our methods are really just
functions
sets of instructions
so when you think of objects in terms of
javascript just think of regular old
objects in regular meat space they have
properties
and they have methods you might have
called them attributes and behaviors but
it's the same thing
when we look at the stopwatch we can do
the same exercise again and we can say
the
color property is black
the brand property is accusplit the val
the the the minutes property is three
the seconds property is 59 right and we
can say that the
the actual methods that this stopwatch
object has is start stop split beep all
these wonderful things
cool
so here is what that actually
looks like
we can create a object using literal
notation
just like we saw literal notation with
an array using square brackets we can
literally create an object using curly
braces
and so here i have created a stopwatch
object
using literal notation which means curly
braces
then right here i have set up current
time
and current time is the first what on
this stopwatch
current time is a what we talked about
objects having two things
so current time is the first what
yeah it's the first property right it's
the first property the current time
property is set to 12.
next if we look at stopwatch
you can see that we're setting up
tell time
and without having to really know too
much about our objects we know that
telltime is a what
it's not a property it's something else
yeah it's a method how do we know
that tell time is a method
what's the dead giveaway that tell time
is a method
it's snitched on itself yeah it's a
function
right whenever you have
an object and you're setting something
about it to a function
dead stop it's a method
as soon as you set tell time equal to a
function you have a method so
right off the bat we can see that our
objects
can have properties like current time
and methods like tell time
a property is going to be some value
and a tell time is going to be a value
that is a method it's always going to be
a value that is a
function
so if you're ever looking at an object
and you see it set equal to a function
you're going to call that a method
anything else you're going to call it a
property
so the cool thing is we can use these
properties and methods just like we
would use any other variables and
functions and so
once we have set up these properties and
methods we can start to use them
so here we have
stopwatch dot current time
ignore this stuff here and ignore the
parentheses if you're just looking at
stopwatch dot current time
what does that equal
stopwatch that current time equals what
yeah equals 12.
it's the same thing as slapping 12 in
there because you can see we created our
object
and we gave it the current time property
of 12. we can always ask for that
property back from the stopwatch object
by using this notation anybody know what
kind of notation this is called
has that has a very specific name what
type of notation is that did you get it
from the reading yeah it's called dot
notation
we can use dot notation
to add a property or add a method but we
can also use dot notation to consume we
can get the current time right so right
here we know that stopwatch that current
time
is the same thing as grabbing 12. so
wherever i see stopwatch.currenttime
it's the same thing as 12.
now
if we ignore
this for a second
and we look at tell time
how could we tell
that tell time
was a method even if we couldn't see it
up here
in this instance how could i tell
that tell time was a method even if i
didn't see the function above
yeah exactly
tell time has the parentheses
right so if we were to write this out
stop
watch
dot
tell
time just the parentheses open and close
you can see that it has the parentheses
whenever you see those parentheses what
is that what is it what are we trying to
do
what are we trying to do
exactly
we're trying to call
whenever you see those whenever you see
those parentheses we're trying to make a
function call and so if we're making a
function call
and it's tied to something else
right it's tied to something else right
if we're trying to make a function call
and it's tied to stopwatch right it's no
longer just a function it's a what
if we're trying to make that function
call and it's tied to the stopwatch
object it's no longer just a function
it's a what
it's a method
exactly
when our functions are tied to objects
we call them methods
and when
we have individual variables tied to our
objects we call those properties so here
we can see a property tied to our
stopwatch object and we can see a tell
time method tied to our stop watch
object
now
shadow said can you use current time
inside the function
heck yes we can let me show you why
right
right we can for sure so
stopwatch that current time
evaluates to what
what does it evaluate to
it evaluates to 12. so what we wind up
really doing
is
stop
watch tell time
but we pass in
12.
we pass in 12.
so that means we're going to pass 12
into
tell
time so here's our function for tell
time that 12
it's passed in
wherever i see time
i see
12. so console log the current time is
12.
and so that's how we can use the
properties and the methods together
right we can use the properties and
methods together we had one we had one
stopwatch object that came with a
property and it came with a method the
property was the current time and the
method was tell time and we were able to
use those together to start to do some
cool stuff we can run that telltime
method
and we can actually pass in the current
time if we want
so objects are like customized methods
well you can think of objects having
their own functions which can be
customized and those are methods
all right
let's go ahead
and
try writing some code to make this make
a little bit more sense
right let's try writing some code to
make this make a little bit more sense
let's look at the objects zeo so if we
look go to objects here we have zeo
and in this object zeo
i want you to create a stopwatch object
that has four properties
and three methods
right
create a stopwatch object has four
properties and three methods i'm gonna
get i'm only gonna give you three
minutes
three minutes to try and bang this out
look at
look at the
look at the past
uh the past slide if you need to so
three minutes and we're going to go over
it together
stopwatch obviously has four properties
and three methods try it even if it's
not making sense look at the slide and
use your good old 100 devs try to make
it look
the same here
four properties three methods three
minutes go for it
put the other slide up so folks can see
it
four properties you can see adding a
property here and a meth and and the
methods
daddy's home 420 hey thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
a lot of this should have been reviewed
folks a lot of this should have been
review
this is this is in the reading
minutes two minutes
uh diego you haven't sent me a whisper
diego
so if we don't have your whisper i'm
gonna have to pick the raid
[Music]
all right folks 45 seconds you got this
oh we got some duns coming in i'd like
to see it
[Music]
all righty
eight seconds we're gonna go over it
together
we're gonna
maybe maybe slightly blow your mind just
a little bit before we get to thursday's
class
all right let's come back let's go over
this together
alrighty
so i wanted a stopwatch object so the
first thing i need to do
right
the first thing i need to do is create
the stopwatch object so i'm going to go
ahead and do let
stop watch
equal and then my curly braces
what type of notation did i just use
right what notation i just used to
create the
object literal notation exactly i
literally created the object
on thursday we'll see constructors and
some other fun stuff ways to create
objects beautiful
so let's add four properties uh i'm
gonna imagine like a
nike stopwatch so i'm going to go ahead
and say stopwatch
dot
brand
equals
nike
okay
then the stopwatch
dot color
let's keep it the same as the picture
we'll say black
and then
um actually i'm gonna keep it lowercase
i don't get in trouble there
[Music]
stopwatch
dot
what are some other properties that you
all thought through
thought through
shape i like shape
let's say shape equals round
and what else
um
size okay
stopwatch
dot size and we can set it equal to
medium
there we go medium
um
we got our shapeshifters medium
and
that's our four properties and so the
cool thing is if we were to open this in
the browser
right if we were to open this in the
browser let's go ahead and open it
let's go ahead and open it
all right let's look in the inspector
go to our console here
oh i failed to load the image
it failed to load the image uh why
didn't the image work
anyway
we can ask for this stopwatch right
since we since we're in the console we
can ask for stopwatch so if we type in
stopwatch
you can see that we get back the
stopwatch that we just created
right we got we get back to stopwatch we
just created
we have brand
color
shape and size on the stopwatch that we
created so we can actually ask for
stopwatch
dot brand
and it would give us back nike
right we could ask for
stopwatch
dot
shape
and get back round
because we declared
the variable stopwatch and literally
created an object and then we added the
properties one by one
we could if we wanted to
as we create the object have done
brand
and then did nike
right then we could have done color
and do
black
that's a little too much to get started
with so for what i did for now is i just
literally declared
my
object
and then i did them all on individual
lines so they could actually see it but
you could actually do it all if you did
the reading it could all be done uh
inside of the curly braces if you want
it but this is this is readable for now
and we'll get some some other ways to do
it later all right so we have our four
properties and then let's go ahead and
create the
methods
so the ones we kind of already said i
think i wanted to use so let's go ahead
and do start
and i'm going to set that equal to a
what if i want this to be a method start
has to be equal to what
has to be equal to a function so i'll
make this a function
and we're going to say just we're going
to like console.log starting
starting
boom
all right
that's lock starting wonderful
and then we're going to go ahead and do
stop
i'm going to do the same thing
equals function
and we're just going to console.log
stopping
can you do with an arrow function you
could you could um stopping and then i
want one more which is beep
so
oh we could we could say um
i like beep
or let's let's make it say something
set a beep
stopwatch
dot say
say say say brand there we go
we'll set that equal to a function
and will console log
and what could i pass in here so that it
says the brand
what could i do so that it says the
brand
we could hard code it we can just hard
code it for right now
we could eventually get to something
called like this but that's a little too
advanced for today we're gonna say
stopwatch
dot brand
because we know that this right now
stopwatch.brand is nike right so this
would only work for this stopwatch but
eventually we'll get to this and it
could be more
interchangeable all right let's go ahead
and save all this we got our four
properties we got our three methods
looks good to me let's come back look in
the console let's refresh
so if we ask for stopwatch
we can see everything that's stored in
memory right now for stopwatch we can
see
all of the brands the colors but we can
also see these other things in there
what what what else have we added to
this stopwatch object that the console
can show us
what have we added
yeah we've added our methods exactly
we've added our methods and so inside of
the terminal
we can actually use these we can do
stopwatch
dot
um size and get back medium but let's
try running some of the methods
stopwatch
dot
start
if i just did this something weird would
happen if i if i want my methods to run
what do i need
i want my methods to run what do i need
i need my parentheses so right now i
don't have my parentheses if i just hit
enter
i get the function declaration back
right i get the function declaration
back but it didn't actually run it's
just showing me
what i have stored into memory but it
didn't actually run if you want your
methods to run
you have to use the parentheses so boom
i hit enter now and you can see it
logged to the console starting
right log the console starting and then
we can also do the stay brand so
stopwatch
that say brand and once again if i want
it to run i need
my parentheses to make it a call
boom
you can see that it console logged the
brand which was nike i looked at
stopwatch
dot brand
it was nike so this this method of say
brand actually
actually works it said the brand that it
was which is nike
why does it say undefined because there
was no return
it was expecting a return and i didn't
have a return in my methods don't worry
about it yet
yeah that's something we'll get to later
on
cool
alrighty
cool so we we hit some things here we we
have some
some properties that we can use on our
objects and we have some methods that we
can use on our objects now can i just
can can just give me give me a few
seconds here i just want to tease your
brain just a little bit just a little
bit and then third is i'm going to like
blow it
all right if we look back at some of the
stuff we did earlier today
like leo no
look at back some of the stuff we did
earlier today let's um let's look at
this one that we just did recently
here i grabbed
the length
of sorted
what does length look like right now
based on what we just learned tonight
about objects what does length look like
it looks like a property but you're
saying leon
sorted is a what though sorted as a what
sorted is an array right here but we're
using length
huh
filter
looks like a what
let's get rid of stuff that's inside of
here
filter looks like a what
a method huh
but it's it's working on an array
we've been seeing these properties
and these methods since the beginning
we saw math.min
math.max we saw two string we saw some
these these methods
and properties that we've been using
this whole time
interesting i say
interesting indeed
and that's because
every
single
thing
in
javascript is an object
does it matter if it's an array a string
of whatever anything we've seen so far
it's all been a lie
it's all been objects this whole time so
on thursday we'll make that mind-bending
idea come to life
we'll see how we can start to really use
objects we're gonna we're gonna peek
underneath the javascript hood and see
how everything really is
objects
alrighty folks a huge thank you to
everyone this evening hitting a hundred
jobs was a huge milestone uh something
i'm super proud of and i'm super proud
of this community every single day you
show up you put in the work you help
others let's uh keep the positivity
going we're gonna go ahead and do a raid
um
the person that
redeemed it didn't actually whisper me
um so i didn't see that come through so
i've already queued up a different raid
um diego we can do a different raid the
other
on thursday if you want um but we're
going to go to uh nick
who's doing a competitive data
visualization we've been there to them
before but they're doing something
special today let's go ahead and give
them some love if you haven't given them
a follow they definitely deserve it
go ahead and let's go and set that up
beautiful
alrighty folks
hope you had some fun reviewing arrays
seeing some of our newer ways to handle
things like arrow functions some more
methods uh we're going to do more object
practice on thursday don't worry if this
is your first time seeing objects we'll
get into it on thursday we'll have more
fun we'll make it make more sense
thank you so much for 100 jobs it means
a lot it means a lot that you're all
here you continue to show up continue to
put in the hard work we're just getting
started folks next week best week ever
let's raid